---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "hopsworksai_cluster Data Source - terraform-provider-hopsworksai"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Use this data source to get information about a cluster on Hopsworks.ai.
---

# hopsworksai_cluster (Data Source)

Use this data source to get information about a cluster on Hopsworks.ai.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "hopsworksai_clusters" "cluster" {
  cluster_id = "CLUSTER ID"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **cluster_id** (String) The Id of the cluster.

### Optional

- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.

### Read-Only

- **activation_state** (String) The current activation state of the cluster.
- **attach_public_ip** (Boolean) Attach or do not attach a public ip to the cluster. This can be used if you intend creating a cluster in a private network.
- **aws_attributes** (List of Object) The configurations required to run the cluster on Amazon AWS. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--aws_attributes))
- **azure_attributes** (List of Object) The configurations required to run the cluster on Microsoft Azure. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--azure_attributes))
- **backup_retention_period** (Number) The validity of cluster backups in days. If set to 0 cluster backups are disabled.
- **creation_date** (String) The creation date of the cluster. The date is represented in RFC3339 format.
- **head** (List of Object) The configurations of the head node of the cluster. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--head))
- **issue_lets_encrypt_certificate** (Boolean) Enable or disable issuing let's encrypt certificates. This can be used by the user to disable issuing certificates if port 80 is not open.
- **managed_users** (Boolean) Enable or disable Hopsworks.ai to manage your users.
- **name** (String) The name of the cluster, must be unique.
- **open_ports** (List of Object) Open the required ports to communicate with one of the Hopsworks services. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--open_ports))
- **ssh_key** (String) The ssh key name that will be attached to this cluster.
- **start_date** (String) The starting date of the cluster. The date is represented in RFC3339 format.
- **state** (String) The current state of the cluster.
- **tags** (Map of String) The list of custom tags to be attached to the cluster.
- **update_state** (String) The action you can use to start or stop the cluster.
- **url** (String) The url generated to access the cluster.
- **version** (String) The version of the cluster.
- **workers** (Set of Object) The configurations of worker nodes. You can add as many as you want of this block to create workers with different configurations. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--workers))

<a id="nestedatt--aws_attributes"></a>
### Nested Schema for `aws_attributes`

Read-Only:

- **bucket_name** (String)
- **ecr_registry_account_id** (String)
- **eks_cluster_name** (String)
- **instance_profile_arn** (String)
- **network** (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--aws_attributes--network))
- **region** (String)

<a id="nestedobjatt--aws_attributes--network"></a>
### Nested Schema for `aws_attributes.network`

Read-Only:

- **security_group_id** (String)
- **subnet_id** (String)
- **vpc_id** (String)



<a id="nestedatt--azure_attributes"></a>
### Nested Schema for `azure_attributes`

Read-Only:

- **acr_registry_name** (String)
- **aks_cluster_name** (String)
- **location** (String)
- **network** (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--azure_attributes--network))
- **resource_group** (String)
- **storage_account** (String)
- **storage_container_name** (String)
- **user_assigned_managed_identity** (String)

<a id="nestedobjatt--azure_attributes--network"></a>
### Nested Schema for `azure_attributes.network`

Read-Only:

- **security_group_name** (String)
- **subnet_name** (String)
- **virtual_network_name** (String)



<a id="nestedatt--head"></a>
### Nested Schema for `head`

Read-Only:

- **disk_size** (Number)
- **instance_type** (String)


<a id="nestedatt--open_ports"></a>
### Nested Schema for `open_ports`

Read-Only:

- **feature_store** (Boolean)
- **kafka** (Boolean)
- **online_feature_store** (Boolean)
- **ssh** (Boolean)


<a id="nestedatt--workers"></a>
### Nested Schema for `workers`

Read-Only:

- **count** (Number)
- **disk_size** (Number)
- **instance_type** (String)


